---
title: Welcome to Canadian Tech Rights Lab
date: 2025-03-25T14:29:00.000Z
thumbnail: /images/welcome.jpg
categories:
  - news
  - announcement
draft: false
---
# We're fighting for Canadians' rights in our digital future. 

## Our Mission

To use tech, law, research, advocacy, and public engagement to ensure that technology serves the public interest while protecting individual rights. 

## Our Beliefs

Our work is guided by the following (th/m)emes:

* **Tech rights are human rights.** Our existing human rights frameworks should extend into the digital world and should apply to both governments and platform companies. 
* **Everything is computer.** The "tech sector" is meaningless when every industry and societal issue has a critical digital component. We need law and policy that deliberately integrates technology instead of reacting to its impact.
* **The internet is real life.**  Technology has permeated society to the extent that the digital world and real world are just "the world". Logging off is not an option when work, play, government services, and daily living require internet access. 
* **Cyberpunk is now.** We might not have cybernetic implants, but the cyberpunk aesthetic describes our current socio-political and economic moment. 
* **AGI is coming.** AI can seem over-hyped, but the AI we have today is already changing how we live and work, and right now it's the worst it will ever be. We need to consider how AGIs will fit into government, policing, and our relationships to the companies that train them.

## Our Projects

Right now, we are working on:

* Artificial intelligence in policing and intelligence.
* Biometrics and facial recognition.
* Device searches by police and at borders.

We would like to work on:

* Raising the standard for consent to data collection by advertisers and data brokers.
*

## Get Involved

Whether you're a technologist, activist, or concerned citizen, there are many ways to contribute to our mission. Join us in shaping Canada's digital future.
